>> Evan You: If you want to check
out the reference implementation,
what you can do is first save
your current work, commit it, and
then do git checkout solutions.
>> Evan You: And this
will put you in a branch where everything
is completely implemented for you.
So you can reference what it is doing.
So yeah this actually is
pretty straightforward.
So we first use object.keys to get a list
of the current existing properties,
and then we iterate
through that keys array.
And for each key,
we get a closure here, right?
So that gives us some opportunity
to just store this, oops!
To store this variable
here inside this closure.
This is the internal value.
And remember to assign it to the initial
value of that original property,
otherwise, you get undefined
on the first access.
And then we use definedProperty
to override it.
So I'm omitting all the extra
innumerable staff here but
remember to think about them for
your use cases in real applications.
And then inside the get, we simply log
the internal value, view the get access,
and return the internalValue.
This will retain the original
access behavior.
And inside the set, we'll just set
the internal value into the new value and
lock the set operation.
Switch back to the master branch, so
that you don't see the solutions for
the next exercise.
>> Evan You: And
then open 1.2.md.
So now we're getting into something
called dependency tracking, okay?
So dependencies.
So how do we abstract
the concept of a dependency?
Let's just create a class, okay?
Let's create a class called dep.
And this class will have two methods,
depend and notify.
Depend means the current
code that's executing
depends on this dependency, all right?
And notify means this
dependency has changed.
So any previous expressions, computations,
functions that have previously depended
on the step should be re-executed,
they should be notified.
What this means is we need to
find a way to associate a piece,
a function or
a piece of expression or computation,
I would call it associated
computation to dependency.
And this computation should probably
be considered something like
a subscriber of this dependency, right?
So that's how the dependency class works,
and then we will have another
function called autorun.
And what this autorun function facilitates
is that it'll take an update function or
an updater function or
a computation, as I would call it.
So this update function,
when you enter this updater function,
everything becomes special.
We're in the reactive zone.
So when you're inside this reactive zone,
you're able to register dependencies.
So let's take a look at how
that would actually work.
So the expect usage looks like this,
right?
So we'll have the dep class, we'll create
an instance of the dep class called dep.
So this represents a dependency.
And then we'll autorun a computation, and
all it does is, the side effect we're
producing is just a console.log, okay?
But the important thing here is,
inside this computation,
we're calling dep.depend, which
associates this function, this
computation to this specific dependency.
So we're essentially adding this function
into the subscriber list of this
dep, okay?
And later on,
when you call dep.notify anywhere else,
it doesn't need to be inside autorun or
anything.
When you call dep.notify,
this function will be called again.
>> Evan You: Does
that make sense?
>> Evan You: So
the API is actually pretty simple.
All you need to do is
create the dep class and
the autorun function that
makes this code possible.
So similarly, you can run tests with this.
And if you look at the file,
the boiler plate is pretty simple,
we just ask you to implement this.
It takes a little bit of a trick.
So let's working on this in ten minutes,
I think.
I'll try to see how everyone is doing and
provide some hints as we go
half through the time, okay?
So now I'm going to provide some
hints on how this might work.
So the idea here is we want
to associate an instance of
a dependency to a computation.
So the catch here is this update
function now we're taking in here,
in fact, can be stored somewhere as well.
It's a variable, right?
Functions are variables.
So what we can do is let's
have something like a global
variable called activeUpdate, right?
Because in JavaScript,
JavaScript is single threaded.
At any given time, only one function
can be currently executing, right?
So if we create a function
that marks itself as the function
that is currently being executed,
then we can know any time whether
this function is currently running.
So now we know if we're inside this
function, does that make sense?
So let's say we have this function called
wrappedUpdate,
>> Evan You: And
inside wrappedUpdate,
we call the original update, okay?
So this is equivalent.
What we want to do is
we want to know whether
we are inside this inner update function.
And the way we can do that is do,
activeUpdate = wrappedUpdate.
>> Evan You: So let's think about what we
have achieved here.
Whenever we call wrappedUpdate and
the code inside this update
function executes, any functions or
any code being called to execute
inside this update function,
they're guaranteed to be able to
access this outer wrappedUpdate
function viewed as
activeUpdate global variable.
So if we do this, and let's say autorun
a function,
>> Evan You: So
now we can check activeUpdate here, right?
This activeUpdate will
always be pointing to
the wrappedUpdate that's created for
this one.
Does that make sense?
>> Evan You: So
this variable will always
point to something that
references this.
But what's more important is when
we call dep.depend here, right?
Even inside the dep class,
we can check the activeUpdate as well.
So inside the dep's implementation,
>> Evan You: Remember,
we're calling dep.depend
inside the autorun, and
we're essentially calling it inside here.
And because we're calling here,
this activeUpdate would
have been set to this, so,
>> Evan You: if (activeUpdate), we need to
register the current active update
as a subscriber.
>> Evan You: And
what the notify function
does is run all subscriber
functions.
>> Evan You: What
this means is this dep class
probably needs an instant property
to store its subscribers, right?
Let's create a constructor,
>> Evan You: So
we can use an array but
array requires some.
So we'll use the ES Set, which is easier,
>> Evan You: Okay?
So, essentially,
>> Evan You: What
you need to do is fill in the rest.